BST PROBLEMS

Height of tree isn’t actual height, but longest number of edges to get to root to lowest node. 
  Skewed tree of 5 nodes will be 4 height/depth since 4 edges
How can prevent skewed BSTs? Rebalancing/rotations!

Rebalance a skewed BST
  Fast and slow pointer (2 pointers, one goes 2 at a time, other goes 1 at a time. When the first one gets to the end, the second will have been at the middle)
  Once we found middle, we put that as root, split before and after it into 2 subtrees and do the same for each subtree and so on

Rotate a BST:
  Rotating left and right are inverses of each other
  Can rotate a skewed BST to fix it (but figuring out where to rotate from can be challenging)

Balanced BST definition:
  Height = order of logn for balanced trees of n nodes
  This will give Theta(logn) operations since operations often based on height

Red-Black Trees: 
  If we have a balanced BST, we don’t have to worry about O(n) worst case operations
  If we make a self-balancing BST, we can always have O(log n) operations
  RB Trees are one of 3 main types of self-balancing BST’s
  RB Trees have following 5 properties: 
    1. Every node is either red or black
    2. Root is black
    3. All NIL nodes are considered black
    4. A red node does not have a red child
    5. Every path from a given node to any of its descendant NIL nodes goes through the same number of black nodes
    (on top of normal BST properties like how left subchild is less than root and right subchild is greater)

NIL nodes don’t have to be shown (but still exist)
Can still do traversal, insertion, deletion on an RB tree
Insertion/deletion is harder because it tends to violate the properties

Insertion/deletion overview: 
  1. Do BST insert/delete
  2. Fix RB tree properties (by recoloring and rotations)
Always insert a red node

RB Tree applications: 
  Completely Fair Scheduler - process scheduler for Linux Kernel
  Handling hash collisions 
  Speeding up other algorithms
  Biggest advantage is O(log n) worst case time complexity for all operations
B trees and AVL trees are other self-balancing trees (AVL trees are based on rotations)

Graphs: 
  A tree is a type of graph

  Anatomy:
    Have nodes/vertices
    Connections are called edges
    Undirected vs directed (arrows on edges)
    Directed:
      Put 2 directed edges between each node
    Edge can be part of a path between 2 nodes
    Cycle is a path back to source vertex
    A simple path has no other cycles
    An acyclic graph contains no cycles
    A digraph is when cyclic
    A directed acyclic graph is called a DAG (guess what DAG stands for)

  Number of outbound edges (edges pointing out of a node) for a given vertex is called its outdegree
  Number of inbound edges (edges pointing towards a node) for a given vertex would be the indegree
  Make some edges more important than others by assigning weights (edge between 1 and 2 could have weight of 1, edge between 1 and 3 could have weight of 0.5)
  
  Graphs have many applications, including: 
    Pagerank
    Google Maps
    Facebook/Social Media
    Netflix Recommendations
    Amazon Delivery Routing
